the foreign secretary Lord Cameron has
suggested Britain is ready to bring
forward the moment when it formally
recognizes a Palestinian State he told a
reception at Westminster that the
Palestinian people had to be given a
political Horizon to encourage peace in
the Middle East well let's get more on
this James landel our diplomatic
correspondent is here with me really
interesting these comments James and and
you were there listening to David Cam
and so to just tell us more about how he
framed this essentially what he was
saying is that something has to be done
to start to political discussion so not
just the immediate short-term talks to
try and end the fighting now but
actually something that can start
unpicking a political process and his
suggestion one of the suggestions was he
said look you know there are lots of
preconditions Hamas has to stop fighting
it has to be guaranteed no longer a
threat the leadership have to leave Gaza
Etc but he also said on the Palestinian
side some movement has to happen to try
and give an incentive to Palestinians to
engage in a in politics rather than
fighting and his idea was to say look
why why don't you have the recognition
of a Palestinian State not as the end
outcome of long-term solution to the
Middle East crisis but something that
would be part of the negotiation so it's
more immediate as as as he said it
provides a political Horizon for
Palestinians now that is a change in the
British position the British position
was always you know we'll support you
know two State solution at some point
he's just saying well maybe we bring
that earlier it's really interesting and
certainly the timing of it is also
interesting would the UK consider doing
this unilaterally no I mean the minister
was asked about this in the house of
comms today he made it very clear this
is not something that's going to be done
unilaterally is a straightforward you
know oneoff thing this is clearly
something that Mr Cameron wants to do
with allies uh but what he said and it's
certainly not going to happen tomorrow
um there has been some criticism in the
House of Commons about this some
conservative MPS have said you know this
whole idea of re would be rewarding
Hamas for the atrocities of October 7th
I think the government's position is
this is not that this is not anything
immediate it's just saying in the future
when those negotiations potentially if
they happen maybe you bring forward that
process to give Palestinians some
confidence that in Mr Cameron's words uh
that there is irreversible progress to a
two-state solution and really briefly I
mean you are talking about longterm
because obviously in the immediate and
the short term I mean the number of
obstacles to actually getting to that
place are just enormous enormous there's
very very little trust and that's why Mr
Cameron is in the region again his
fourth trip since he's only been in post
for two and a half months he's in Oman
um just trying to keep everybody talking
for all the problems that are many at
least there are conversations going on
at the moment James SEL thanks very much
for taking through thank you